STRIPE_FEE_RESPONSIBILITY.md, before:

# 🔧 Stripe Fee Responsibility Fix

## Problem

Currently, the **platform pays all Stripe fees** for both bookings and products. The beautician should pay the fees since they're receiving the money.

---

## ✅ Fixed: Bookings (Destination Charges)

### **What Changed**

Added `on_behalf_of` parameter to booking checkout sessions.

**File**: `src/routes/checkout.js`

```javascript
// Before:
payment_intent_data.application_fee_amount = platformFee;
payment_intent_data.transfer_data = {
  destination: beautician.stripeAccountId,
};

// After:
payment_intent_data.application_fee_amount = platformFee;
payment_intent_data.on_behalf_of = beautician.stripeAccountId; // ← ADDED
payment_intent_data.transfer_data = {
  destination: beautician.stripeAccountId,
};
```

### **How It Works Now**

**Example Booking: £50**

- Customer pays: **£50**
- Stripe fees (~2.9% + 20p): **£1.65** (paid by beautician)
- Platform fee: **£0.50**
- Beautician receives: **£50 - £1.65 - £0.50 = £47.85**

**Money Flow:**

```
Customer → Stripe (£50)
  ↓
Stripe keeps £1.65 (processing fee - from beautician)
  ↓
Platform gets £0.50 (application fee)
  ↓
Beautician gets £47.85 (£50 - £1.65 - £0.50)
```

---

## ✅ Fixed: Products (Hybrid Approach)

### **What Changed**

Products now use a **smart hybrid approach** based on cart composition.

**File**: `src/routes/orders.js`

### **Implementation**

#### **Single-Beautician Orders** (Most Common)

Uses destination charges with `on_behalf_of` - beautician pays fees.

```javascript
// If single beautician order
if (stripeConnectPayments.length === 1) {
  sessionConfig.payment_intent_data = {
    on_behalf_of: payment.beauticianStripeAccount, // Beautician pays fees
    application_fee_amount: 0, // No platform fee on products
    transfer_data: {
      destination: payment.beauticianStripeAccount,
    },
  };
}
```

#### **Multi-Beautician Orders** (Rare)

Uses transfers after payment - platform pays fees.

**Why?** Stripe doesn't support destination charges to multiple accounts in one payment.

### **How It Works**

#### **Example 1: Single Beautician Order - £100**

- Customer buys products from one beautician
- **Beautician pays Stripe fees** (~£3.10)
- Beautician receives: **£96.90**

#### **Example 2: Multi-Beautician Order - £100**

- Customer buys £60 from Beautician A + £40 from Beautician B
- **Platform pays Stripe fees** (~£3.10) as compromise
- Beautician A receives: **£60**
- Beautician B receives: **£40**
- Platform pays: **-£3.10**

---

## � Fee Breakdown Examples

### **Booking: £50**

| Item                    | Amount     |
| ----------------------- | ---------- |
| Customer pays           | £50.00     |
| Stripe fee (2.9% + 20p) | -£1.65     |
| Platform fee            | -£0.50     |
| **Beautician receives** | **£47.85** |

### **Single-Beautician Product Order: £100**

| Item                            | Amount     |
| ------------------------------- | ---------- |
| Customer pays                   | £100.00    |
| Stripe fee (paid by beautician) | -£3.10     |
| Platform fee                    | £0.00      |
| **Beautician receives**         | **£96.90** |

### **Multi-Beautician Product Order: £100**

| Item                          | Amount     | Notes            |
| ----------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------- |
| Customer pays                 | £100.00    |                  |
| Stripe fee (paid by platform) | -£3.10     | Platform absorbs |
| Beautician A gets             | £60.00     | Their products   |
| Beautician B gets             | £40.00     | Their products   |
| **Platform net**              | **-£3.10** | Fee compromise   |

---

## 📝 Current Status

- ✅ **Bookings**: Beautician pays Stripe fees (FIXED)
- ✅ **Single-Beautician Products**: Beautician pays Stripe fees (FIXED)
- ⚠️ **Multi-Beautician Products**: Platform pays Stripe fees (acceptable compromise)

---

## 🎯 Implementation Complete

Both booking and product payments have been optimized:

1. **Bookings**: Always use destination charges with `on_behalf_of`
2. **Products (single beautician)**: Use destination charges with `on_behalf_of`
3. **Products (multiple beauticians)**: Use transfers (platform pays fees as technical limitation)

### **Why This Approach?**

- ✅ 95%+ of orders are single-beautician → fees paid by beautician
- ✅ No complex fee calculations needed
- ✅ Uses Stripe-recommended patterns
- ✅ Multi-vendor capability preserved
- ⚠️ Platform pays fees on multi-vendor orders (rare edge case)

---

## 🔗 Stripe Documentation

- [on_behalf_of parameter](https://stripe.com/docs/connect/charges#on_behalf_of)
- [Destination charges](https://stripe.com/docs/connect/destination-charges)
- [Application fees](https://stripe.com/docs/connect/direct-charges#collecting-fees)

Commit message:

Fix variable shadowing bugs, implement feature flags system, and improve staff form UI
- Fixed calendar availability: slots.js variable shadowing (specialist.workingHours)
- Fixed time-off CRUD: timeoff.js variable shadowing
- Fixed image cleanup: beauticians.js old Cloudinary image deletion
- Added platform feature flags to Tenant schema (smsConfirmations, smsReminders, onlinePayments, emailNotifications)
- Implemented database persistence for feature flags (removed localStorage)
- Fixed boolean comparison bugs in feature flag system
- Added tenantId to /api/auth/me response
- Use .lean() in tenants route to avoid Mongoose defaults

STRIPE_FEE_RESPONSIBILITY.md, after:

# 🔧 Stripe Fee Responsibility Fix

## Problem

Currently, the **platform pays all Stripe fees** for both bookings and products. The specialist should pay the fees since they're receiving the money.

---

## ✅ Fixed: Bookings (Destination Charges)

### **What Changed**

Added `on_behalf_of` parameter to booking checkout sessions.

**File**: `src/routes/checkout.js`

```javascript
// Before:
payment_intent_data.application_fee_amount = platformFee;
payment_intent_data.transfer_data = {
  destination: specialist.stripeAccountId,
};

// After:
payment_intent_data.application_fee_amount = platformFee;
payment_intent_data.on_behalf_of = specialist.stripeAccountId; // ← ADDED
payment_intent_data.transfer_data = {
  destination: specialist.stripeAccountId,
};
```

### **How It Works Now**

**Example Booking: £50**

- Customer pays: **£50**
- Stripe fees (~2.9% + 20p): **£1.65** (paid by specialist)
- Platform fee: **£0.50**
- Beautician receives: **£50 - £1.65 - £0.50 = £47.85**

**Money Flow:**

```
Customer → Stripe (£50)
  ↓
Stripe keeps £1.65 (processing fee - from specialist)
  ↓
Platform gets £0.50 (application fee)
  ↓
Beautician gets £47.85 (£50 - £1.65 - £0.50)
```

---

## ✅ Fixed: Products (Hybrid Approach)

### **What Changed**

Products now use a **smart hybrid approach** based on cart composition.

**File**: `src/routes/orders.js`

### **Implementation**

#### **Single-Beautician Orders** (Most Common)

Uses destination charges with `on_behalf_of` - specialist pays fees.

```javascript
// If single specialist order
if (stripeConnectPayments.length === 1) {
  sessionConfig.payment_intent_data = {
    on_behalf_of: payment.beauticianStripeAccount, // Beautician pays fees
    application_fee_amount: 0, // No platform fee on products
    transfer_data: {
      destination: payment.beauticianStripeAccount,
    },
  };
}
```

#### **Multi-Beautician Orders** (Rare)

Uses transfers after payment - platform pays fees.

**Why?** Stripe doesn't support destination charges to multiple accounts in one payment.

### **How It Works**

#### **Example 1: Single Beautician Order - £100**

- Customer buys products from one specialist
- **Beautician pays Stripe fees** (~£3.10)
- Beautician receives: **£96.90**

#### **Example 2: Multi-Beautician Order - £100**

- Customer buys £60 from Beautician A + £40 from Beautician B
- **Platform pays Stripe fees** (~£3.10) as compromise
- Beautician A receives: **£60**
- Beautician B receives: **£40**
- Platform pays: **-£3.10**

---

## � Fee Breakdown Examples

### **Booking: £50**

| Item                    | Amount     |
| ----------------------- | ---------- |
| Customer pays           | £50.00     |
| Stripe fee (2.9% + 20p) | -£1.65     |
| Platform fee            | -£0.50     |
| **Beautician receives** | **£47.85** |

### **Single-Beautician Product Order: £100**

| Item                            | Amount     |
| ------------------------------- | ---------- |
| Customer pays                   | £100.00    |
| Stripe fee (paid by specialist) | -£3.10     |
| Platform fee                    | £0.00      |
| **Beautician receives**         | **£96.90** |

### **Multi-Beautician Product Order: £100**

| Item                          | Amount     | Notes            |
| ----------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------- |
| Customer pays                 | £100.00    |                  |
| Stripe fee (paid by platform) | -£3.10     | Platform absorbs |
| Beautician A gets             | £60.00     | Their products   |
| Beautician B gets             | £40.00     | Their products   |
| **Platform net**              | **-£3.10** | Fee compromise   |

---

## 📝 Current Status

- ✅ **Bookings**: Beautician pays Stripe fees (FIXED)
- ✅ **Single-Beautician Products**: Beautician pays Stripe fees (FIXED)
- ⚠️ **Multi-Beautician Products**: Platform pays Stripe fees (acceptable compromise)

---

## 🎯 Implementation Complete

Both booking and product payments have been optimized:

1. **Bookings**: Always use destination charges with `on_behalf_of`
2. **Products (single specialist)**: Use destination charges with `on_behalf_of`
3. **Products (multiple specialists)**: Use transfers (platform pays fees as technical limitation)

### **Why This Approach?**

- ✅ 95%+ of orders are single-specialist → fees paid by specialist
- ✅ No complex fee calculations needed
- ✅ Uses Stripe-recommended patterns
- ✅ Multi-vendor capability preserved
- ⚠️ Platform pays fees on multi-vendor orders (rare edge case)

---

## 🔗 Stripe Documentation

- [on_behalf_of parameter](https://stripe.com/docs/connect/charges#on_behalf_of)
- [Destination charges](https://stripe.com/docs/connect/destination-charges)
- [Application fees](https://stripe.com/docs/connect/direct-charges#collecting-fees)
